Lost Bonds
Don't all those things we did together in Squad 7
mean anything to you?!
No… It wasn't meaningless.
To me, you became…
my closest friend.
I became your friend?
Then why?
That's precisely why.
That's precisely why…
you're worth killing.
You're finally awake?
A dream?
Where am I?
You lost consciousness.
You really had us worried.
Where are Kakashi Sensei and Sai?
I see.
Why?
Why did it turn out like this?
Naruto…
You should rest a bit longer.
Come on.
Sasuke…you're…
Did you hear? Everyone in the Uchiha Clan got killed.
Yeah, I know. I heard my dad talking about it.
He's the only one who survived.
I was sorta glad back then.
I wasn't the only one who was alone anymore.
But Sasuke was good at everything he did.
Good job, Sasuke!
Just what I'd expect from Sasuke!
He's so cool!
He's showing off! I can do that too!
He was so different from me.
Go!
That's why I picked him to be my rival,
because I wanted to become like him.
Even though we were both on Squad 7,
Sasuke was always one step ahead of me.
The reason why I trained so hard was because
I wanted to catch up to him, even just a little.
"Am I strong?" All I want is the answer to that.
I just wanted to fight the strong ones.
And they are all right here.
Naruto… I want to fight you too.
I was really happy.
It was the first time Sasuke acknowledged me as an equal.
First off, let's have you guys introduce yourselves.
But he…
My name's Sasuke Uchiha.
I have lots of dislikes, but no likes in particular.
And I don't feel like summing up my ambition as just a dream,
but I do have an ambition.
The ambition to restore my clan and
to kill a certain man without fail!
It's been a long time…Sasuke.
Itachi Uchiha…
I will kill you!
This is the guy Sasuke talked about,
the man he wants to kill?
It's just as you said…
I've hated you… and resented you.
For the singular purpose of killing you, I…
I…
have lived my life!
You decided to live for revenge.
My classified mission was indeed the assassination of Sasuke.
But I've had enough of orders.
I now want to act on my own beliefs.
I think Naruto will get me to remember…
my past emotions.
I don't know you very well.
But there must be some kind of reason
Naruto and Sakura have pursued you so desperately.
They don't want to sever their bonds with you.
They're giving it their all to secure those bonds.
I still don't understand it all that clearly.
But Sasuke, you should understand.
Yeah, I did understand.
That's why I severed the bonds. I have a different bond.
A bond of hatred with my older brother.
What about the bond between Sasuke and me?
Hurry up!
Before that, put your headband on. I'll wait.
I don't need that thing.
Just do it!
You won't even be able to put a scratch on my forehead!
That's not it!
I'm saying this is a testament
to fighting on equal terms as Leaf Ninja.
And I'm saying you're acting high and mighty!
Do you really think that we're equals?!
Yeah, I do!
I've never once thought that I was inferior to you!
You're an embarrassment!
That's because you're still weak, Little Sasuke!
Naruto!
Sasuke!
Stop it, both of you.
Stop it!
Stop it, both of you!
Damn!
I can't stop completely!
Lord Orochimaru has already acquired the Immortality Jutsu.
"Immortal" doesn't mean that his flesh can maintain itself forever.
Before his body decays,
a strong, new body must be made into a vessel for his soul.
That's…
Are you saying that's Sasuke?!
Yes… That's right.
I won't let that happen!
When Sasuke abandoned the village,
I really believed I could bring him back.
But…
Have you snapped out of it yet?
You have no siblings or parents.
How could you understand anything about me?!
You've been on your own since the beginning!
What makes you think you know anything about me?
Having that bond is what makes it painful!
And how could you know
what it feels like to lose that bond?!
In the end, I didn't understand Sasuke at all.
I just thought I knew him.
Why?
Why would you go so far for me?
Because this is the first bond that I've ever had!
That's why I'm gonna stop you.
I admit it, you're strong.
It's because you know the pain that solitude brings,
just as I do.
And it's that pain that makes people stronger.
And for that very reason, if I break that bond,
I'll be able to achieve even greater strength.
Did you know that this place is called the Final Valley?
Don't you think this is a perfect stage for us, Naruto?
You…
So let's bring this fight to a close soon!
How are you feeling?
I had them make some porridge.
Eat it and restore your strength.
I…was dreaming about Sasuke.
You're going back to the village with me.
They're Kakashi's orders.
I'm sorry, but you just have to let Kakashi handle Sasuke.
Got it?
Fine.
Let me rest some more, then we can head back to the village.
You should eat a little to restore your strength.
I don't have an appetite.
Sasuke said he was going to sever his bond with me
and become stronger.
He said I could never understand his feelings.
You were friends with Orochimaru long ago, right, Pervy Sage?
Why did Orochimaru desert the village
and decide to destroy the Hidden Leaf?
Orochimaru changed after his parents were killed.
He became obsessed with Forbidden Jutsu.
Maybe he longed to see his parents,
or he sought revenge on the Leaf Village,
who he held responsible for their deaths.
My parents weren't killed.
So like you, I was accused of not being able to understand.
Perhaps he was right,
I didn't understand a thing about him.
However…
even I can see there's too much hate in our Ninja World.
Hate?
And I've wanted to do something about this hatred,
but I'm not sure what must be done.
But I have faith that there will come a time
when people can truly understand one another.
To me, Pervy Sage was irreplaceable. He was family.
That's why…
Jiraiya-boy has died in battle.
When I heard that Pervy Sage died,
I understood what Sasuke was talking about for the very first time.
About the pain of losing a bond.
Naruto, let's go soon. Are you still not ready?
I don't feel like going outside yet.
Can you wait a bit longer?
All right. He still hasn't caught on that I'm a Shadow Clone.
Have you come to understand a little of what pain is?
Unless you know the same pain, you cannot truly know another.
And even if you get to know others, there can be no understanding.
That is the truth.
Just like how it's useless to chase after Sasuke.
People change…
Sasuke isn't the old Sasuke anymore.
Sasuke chose this himself.
You must forget about Sasuke.
If you are a ninja, become wiser.
Fools cannot survive in our world. That is the reality.
If being smart means what you say,
I'll remain a fool for the rest of my life.
Pervy Sage, I'm a big fool after all.
Kakashi Sensei's chakra…
This way!
Sakura, don't do anything reckless.
This is just an assumption on my part.
But I believe Sakura…
She intends to kill Sasuke herself.
Sasuke has shouldered the entire burden of the Uchiha's hatred
and intends to strike the world with that curse.
It is the most powerful weapon.
It's his friend and source of power, this thing called hatred.
And it is Sasuke's Ninja Way!
Did you know, Naruto?
When two shinobi are of a high enough level,
they are able to read each other's thoughts,
simply by an exchange of fists.
Without ever uttering a single word.
You're naïve, Naruto.
Tell me, could you read…
my true feelings?
Sasuke… Right now…
I understand how you feel as someone who has lost a bond.
You said earlier you consider Sasuke to be like a brother.
What if Sasuke were to attack the Leaf Village?
What would you do then?
What? Why would Sasuke…?
There's no way he'd do something like that!
Sasuke is still naïve. He can easily be dyed any color.
Would you be able to stop him?
Even if you had to kill Sasuke?
Could you weigh Sasuke against the Leaf Village
on a set of scales?
I would defend the Leaf Village!
But I would also stop Sasuke without killing him!
You're such a child.
What you speak of are all fantasies.
A ninja must sometimes make very harsh decisions.
The Akatsuki will be branded as wanted fugitives.
Then, not only I,
but the whole world will hunt Sasuke down.
Yet you bow your head for this criminal
and plead for mercy for your friend.
In the ninja world, that is not friendship!
If you are prepared to bear the burden of being a Kage,
then do what is right as Sasuke's friend.
I don't know what the right thing to do is.
However…
Boy from the Hidden Leaf, think hard on what you must do!
The ninja world does not indulge fools!
I consider you my friend.
In the past, "friend" was merely a word to me.
Nothing more, nothing less.
But after meeting you, you made me realize
that the meaning of that word is what's important.
What does it mean?
What can you do for Sasuke? Think hard about that.
Sasuke…
If I see you…
If we meet, I think I'll know the answer.
Sakura, you don't have to shoulder that burden yourself.
It was my cowardice that split all of you up.
I must have been trying to convince myself
that it could be like the old days again.
Next time on Naruto Shippuden: "The Burden"
I'm sorry I was such a careless teacher.
Tune in again!